Beehive Monitoring System

There are 8 distinct modules in the initial prototype PCB.

1. Temperature and Humidity Sensor (HTU21D)
2. Real-Time Clock (DS3231) with EEPROM
3. ADXL345 accelerometer breakout board
4. Neo-6M U-blox GPS receiver
5. SIM800L GPS/GPRS Modules
6. Onboard Serial EEPROM 512Kbits (64KByte)
7. SDCard module (obsolete, since on board EEPROM is used)
8. HX711 weight sensor

NOTE: (13/3/17) Since there are going to be 2 kinds of nodes (Level 0 and
Level 1+0) 

Level 0 node collects data, stores them and pushes them to Level 1+0 node. 
(This uses a low-range RF module)

Level 1+0 node collects data and stores them, also pulls data from other
Level 0 nodes and pushes ALL data to the Internet Server.  (This uses both a
low-range RF module *and* a GSM/GPRS module)




The purpose(s) of the project are:
1. To monitor the health of a beehive (logging of temperature and humidity
and in next phase to also log the weight of the beeghive),

2. To wirelessly transmit logged parameters to an internet server via GPRS
connection,

3. To act as a security alarm, sensing when the beehive is moved so its
position is logged with the GPS module and coordinates are transmitted in
the web so the beehive can be traced.

4. Further more each BMS module can wirelessly communicate with other
modules via RF-link, so data can be gathered from modules that do not have
GSM/GPRS module (because of cost of the module).


Logged parameters are:

0. NodeId
1. Battery voltage
2. CPU Temperature
3. Date
4. Time
5. Beehive Temperature
6. Beehive Humidity
7. Beehive Weight
8. Beehive Attitude (AccelX, AccelY, AccelZ)
9. GPS Coordinates (Longitude, Latitude)
10. GSM Network signal level


Modules are powered on and off via a special bit-banging sequence of a
ATmega328P pin which controls a P-Channel MOSFET transistor.

Also a 3.3V LDO voltage regulator is used to provide with 3.3V the various
components.



57 nibbles
64 nibbles --> 32 bytes for record

add 4 more nibbles (57-->61) for nodeId value







IMSI = International Mobile Subscriber Identity.  This is a unique
identifier that defines a subscriber in the wireless world, including the
country and mobile network to which the subscriber belongs.  It has the
format MCC-MNC-MSIN.  MCC = Mobile Country Code (e.g.  310 for USA); MNC =
Mobile Network Code (e.g.  410 for AT&T), MSIN = sequential serial number. 
All signaling and messaging in GSM and UMTS networks uses the IMSI as the
primary identifier of a subscriber.  The IMSI is one of the pieces of
information stored on a SIM card.


ICCID = Integrated Circuit Card ID.  This is the identifier of the actual
SIM card itself - i.e.  an identifier for the SIM chip.  It is possible to
change the information contained on a SIM (including the IMSI), but the
identify of the SIM itself remains the same.

IMEI is short for International Mobile Equipment Identity and is a unique
number given to every single mobile phone, typically found behind the
battery.  IMEI numbers of cellular phones connected to a GSM network are
stored in a database (EIR - Equipment Identity Register) containing all
valid mobile phone equipment.  When a phone is reported stolen or is not
type approved, the number is marked invalid.
 
MSISDN = Mobile Station ISDN number.  This is the full phone number of a
subscriber, including the national country code (e.g.  1 for US, 44 for UK,
etc.).  The purpose of the MSISDN is simply to allow a device to be called. 
A subscriber can have multiple MSISDNs (e.g.  one phone number for business,
one for personal calls, one for fax, etc.), but generally only one IMSI. 
The MSISDN does not need to be stored on the SIM card.  In cases where it is
stored on the SIM, the main reason is so that the user can use check to see
what their own MSISDN is (in case they forget).  The MSISDN is never
signaled to of from the device.
